While
financial inclusion has resulted in an unprecedented shift in global banking
and redefined relationships people have with money, COVID-19 has
unintentionally encouraged cashless spending. As a result of the World Health
Organisation (WHO) announcement, people are being advised to use contactless
technology instead of cash, as banknotes may be spreading coronavirus.  Clayton
Hayward, co-founder and managing director, Ukheshe, a micro transaction
platform that allows you to pay and #getpaid, says that while the business has
been focused on empowering the under-banked and unbanked, the company would
welcome broader use of its financial inclusion platform.   “Going
cashless is getting harder to avoid. Almost all of the transactions done on a
daily basis are via an App or platform. Ukheshe is a proven and massively
growing platform, which makes paying and getting paid easier, and now safer and
healthier too,” says Hayward.  According
to the WHO, the infectious COVID-19 virus could be carried on the surface of
banknotes for several days. To stop the spread of the disease, WHO urges people
to use contactless payments where possible, and wash their hands after handling
cash.  “We
have made our platform user-friendly and extremely easy to use. Just follow
prompts and going cashless will be easier than you ever realised,” says
Hayward. “If we all take extra precautions, it will minimise the impact of
COVID-19, while also growing South Africa’s cashless base. This in turn boosts
the informal economy, which in South Africa, is significant and much needed,”
says Hayward.  For
more information about Ukheshe or to order your cards today, please visit www.ukheshe.co.za.  Ukheshe
App Android:
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=guru.jini.ukheshe&hl=en_ZA iOS: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/ukheshe/id1350353337 