The
Minister of Community Safety, Albert Fritz welcomed the four arrests by the
National Border Control Unit at Cape Town International airport. The officials
are believed to have taken part in a robbery on Saturday in Montague Gardens. “I welcome these arrests as they send a strong message against criminal conduct
within the police services, our officers are duty-bound to serve and protect
all residing within our province”, said Fritz. He said they cannot allow the
force to be undermined by those who wish to cause harm to or undermine safety
in the province. Fritz added that this particular incident left members of the
Chinese community feeling targeted by criminal elements and concerned about the
involvement of the police. “We have previously seen similar incidents of
Chinese businesspeople being kidnapped and held ransom, we must continue to
ensure that measures such as these arrests are made as they send a strong
message to would-be criminals targeting both business people and members of the
Chinese community.” Previously a syndicate of eight members was arrested
including the main kingpin. “The related to five kidnappings and one attempted
kidnapping of members of Chinese business community, these incidents occurred
from July to November 2020”, added Fritz. He wishes to ensure members of the
Chinese and business community that their safety is of the utmost importance to
them. “We need to encourage and support business in the province, if we are to
recover our economy, my Department officials continue to engage in a weekly
steering committee on business extortion in the province and I am very pleased
with the results and progress made to this date”, added Fritz. Anyone with
information on extortion in the province, or who has been approached to pay
protection fees can anonymously report this to the police on the extortion
hotline by calling 021 466 0011.